Since the dawn of the humanity as we know, there was always a tangible existence of trade occuring in the world. Either by bartering between two different kinds of goods, or by commonly agreeing on what holds value and using it as an intermediary for purchase goods. This intermediary gave way to prototypical existence of money as we know, where multiple parties agree on what gives value and is used by them for trading other non-tangible commodities. Over centuries the way how this value is generated mutated and changed and created a complex machine of modern economics and currencies, where value of money is regulated not by raw amount of tangible valuable goods, but also by the intangible value of services and debt.

But this complexity essentially demented the original idea of money, modern money is primarily managed not only by it's economy, but also by central banks and banks. Monitoring not only the economy, but also restricting trade based on the legality of a transaction happening and regulating value based on the economical climate.

A person under pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto had an idea to not only cut banks out of the equation but also to create means of making money anonymous again, giving birth to Bitcoin in 2008 in form of a whitepaper. The whitepaper described a currency, which is not managed by a single authoritative party, but by everyone involved in the network. Eventually the whitepaper had been fully realised by Nakamoto a year later, releasing the first version of Bitcoin client, minting the genesis block and pioneering the existence of cryptocurrencies.

Bitcoin maintains a distributed append-only ledger, which in simpler words contains a list of transactions, with each transaction entailing the amount of moved coins, receiving and sending addresses. The addresses or subjects, are anonymous to the rest of the ledger and users can generate arbitrarily as many addresses as they want. To generate these transactions the sending party must sign a transaction with a private key of their address. Keeping the secrecy of the key is a top-most priority, since the key grants access to all funds associated with the address. And with the append-only nature of the ledger, these attacks are irreversible.

The ways this secrecy can be maintained are many, either by using a single-purpose computer/phone, airgapped computers, etc. These methods eventually gave birth to dedicated devices which try to protect the private key as best as they can from adversaries. The first such device was called Trezor Model One, made by Satoshi Labs a Czech company. This device essentially pioneered many ideas that many other "hardware wallets" of late started to share with exceptions.

Past the Model One, there were more devices introduced each year, which not only vary in their shapes and looks, but also in features, range of supported cryptocurrencies, means of backing up the private keys, used software, etc. Some of the devices are open-source, where it's possible to not only scrutinize it's hardware, but also firmware, software associated with it. Rest opt to veil themselves in obscurity of it's specification/or make the scrutinization dificult.

This leads to my main assignment, which is to analyse and summarize the vast array of currently known hardware wallets and to create a centralized knowledge base which not only analyses the device from the layman perspective, but also collects all the publicly available or partially private data, either by analysing the hardware, or by analysing the manufacturers themselves. For the sake of simplicity, the thesis focuses on Bitcoin only.

In the first chapter, we describe what Bitcoin is, and how a signing occurs. The second chapter contains definition of hardware wallets as part of the Bitcoin ecosystem and also details elementary feature-sets identified across the range of devices. The third chapter then assesses the devices on individual basis, describing them by their Transparency, Physical Security, Logical Security, Implementation Security, Hardware Used, Support Offered, Upgradability and at last Quality of Documentation. The last chapter concludes the work with additional findings, which had been found over the course of the research and also describes the knowledge base. 